[Music]
hi there as far as we know today
humanity is the only intelligent species
there is and well astronomers keep
searching for extraterrestrials it got
me thinking what if some other sentient
life-form were right here on earth what
would they be and what would it mean for
us think about it
even if we find some other civilization
among the Stars how prepared would we be
to meet another intelligent being that
isn't human it could become a problem
for us but if we were used to sharing
our home with other non-human
civilizations
we'd be much more equipped to engage in
negotiations with aliens who knows maybe
we'd have already found them by now if
we were prepared for that encounter by
learning from other beings here on earth
and this possibility isn't as abstract
as it seems several scenarios could lead
us to share our planet with another
sentient species they could have evolved
for millions of years alongside us they
might have come here from another place
somewhere among the stars it could even
be that we already live with some kind
of planetary scale neighbors right now
but still don't fully understand them
but we'll return to this point a bit
later at the very least we aren't the
only sentient species that ever lived on
the earth I'm not talking about
prehistoric lizard people or any other
pseudo scientific nonsense here I'm
talking about Neanderthals they look
very much like us and were also
ancestors of primates their brains were
even bigger than ours and they used
tools and cooked food they weren't as
intelligent as humans but they had a way
of communicating with each other then
some 40,000 years ago they all went
extinct leaving us alone to build the
foundation for our future civilizations
it's a sad story that we all know except
it's not entirely true in reality we
lived alongside this similarly developed
species for around 5,000 years there's
evidence in some remains found in the
territory of today's Europe that humans
lived with
and earth all's and it even worked out
quite well actually it's not enough that
our DNA's are around 99% similar there
were humans who live with them and had
shared offspring and it wasn't some
unique case but a common occurrence to
this day parts of the Neanderthals DNA
around one or two percent are sometimes
found in human DNA so we have our answer
if Neanderthals lived with us and never
went extinct we probably wouldn't even
notice them now we'd already be
assimilated with each other too well to
even separate who's a Neanderthal and
who's a homo sapien other than that
Neanderthal down the block who plays his
music really loud at 3:00 a.m. or in
another case if neither of us were keen
on interbreeding they'd have evolved and
developed into a separate civilization
just like we did to us they'd just be
some separate nation that lives by its
own rules and with whom we'd have
economic and political relationships but
if we were to find out that some other
life-form had evolved until now and has
nothing in common with us at all that
would definitely be another deal and our
prime candidates are not primate at all
some social Monkee like creatures like
chimpanzees or gorillas are capable of
using simple tools and communicating
with each other yet they feel quite
comfortable in their own place and
aren't rushing to be alongside humans
cats dogs and crows are intelligent sure
but their wit is all about adapting to
humans and not necessarily evolving into
something separate dolphins though
they're our closest rivals in the way of
intelligence first we need to clarify
what qualifies as an intellectually
developed species the one of many signs
of intelligence in a life-form is its
ability to think abstractly this ability
is demonstrated in complex
problem-solving tests which will verify
if the subject like a crow or an octopus
can solve a task by going through
several steps one important thing here
if the solution includes using some kind
of tool
this tool shouldn't be familiar to the
test subject for example you can leave
an octopus with a small hammer and a
container with a treat inside it'll take
some time but the octopus will figure
out that it can lift the hammer and that
it's heavy enough to break the container
the fact that the octopus had never seen
a hammer before shouldn't deter it so
the solution doesn't come from the
experience but from the ability to
immediately find a use for a tool based
on his qualities in other terms some
species can learn things and collect
knowledge just like we do that's
impressive but not enough abstract
thinking implies a complex social
behavior which allows a species to
communicate pass on newly obtained
knowledge and cooperate on solving a
problem and on that level only dolphins
and whales can truly shine it's already
been proved that dolphins and some
toothed whales have a complex system of
signals which even include calling each
other by names their intelligence is
quite developed but absolutely alien to
ours
their only limitation to interacting
with the world around them is their body
especially their lack of hands
they can only innovate an experiment as
much as their bodies will allow them
considering all that a hypothetical
world where we share our home planet
with an intelligent ocean species is
looking pretty good the ocean covers
more than half of the Earth's surface
and we have no major claims on that
territory since we're used to living on
land maybe they'd provide us better ways
of navigation and transoceanic
transportation or ensure our safety in
the ocean after all dolphins are already
known to accompany ships and save people
from drowning even if in all reality
it's more of a game for them than a real
moral choice another possibility yet
quite outlandish is that we after all
will meet an extraterrestrial
intelligent life but what if instead of
an invasion or the start of some
meaningful communication we end up with
space refugees a
imagine an alien spaceship coming to us
in search of shelter and fuel in this
case humanity would need to be extremely
patient and tolerant not only because
it's the most human thing to do but also
because the reward for it could be
absolutely game-changing imagine how
much they could tell and teach us
interstellar travel is in itself
something we have only a vague idea
about but it could bring us so much more
sources of energy recycling or even
communication after all these aliens
will probably be unfathomably different
from us but they'll certainly be social
enough to show us more advanced science
and engineering than ours this means
that we'll have a chance to establish
some kind of relationship they'll
probably be different in a physiological
way too and that means they might be
better off finding their shelter under
water in deserts on ice or on the
highest peaks of Earth's mountains their
science might allow them to use
something we have an abundance as a
source of energy or food so sharing a
planet with another civilization
wouldn't be a disaster if we don't
prejudge and simply take our time to
understand hmm based on world history
good luck with that and finally here
comes a little plot twist
we're already becoming an excellent
training ground for developing stable
relationships with a vastly different
kind of intelligence and we're the ones
who are creating it I'm talking about
artificial intelligence of course in its
basic form we have a clear understanding
of how AI works but here's the reason
about half of the scientific community
is openly arguing against any further
development of this technology today we
have complete control over its simple
forms but that's only until it obtains
the ability to learn and develop itself
the challenge with AI is that it has no
bodily limits it doesn't need us as much
as we would probably need it it's a
tough thing to have an equal and fair
relationship with something like that
yet the AI that we have now is a good
way to prepare ourselves and make the
best of it in
possible way hey if you learn something
new today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life